NETSH.exe (Network Shell) Help File


NETSH (Network Shell) is a command-line utility used for configuring network interfaces, Windows Firewall, routing, remote access, and other network-related settings. It provides a wide range of commands for managing networking features in Windows.


[Syntax]
NETSH [Context] [sub-Context] command

 Where:

 Context: The area of configuration (example firewall, routing).
 sub-Context: The specific part of the context being modified (example configuring a specific service).
 command: The action to be performed (example add, delete, show).


Key Commands and Contexts

General Commands

 abort: Discard changes made while in offline mode.
 add: Add a configuration entry to a list.
  netsh add helper DllFileName — Install a specified helper DLL.

 delete: Delete a configuration entry from a list.
  netsh delete helper DllFileName — Remove a specified helper DLL from netsh.

 commit: Commit changes made in offline mode.

 exit: Exit the NETSH utility.

 help: Display a list of NETSH commands.
  netsh help — Display available commands.


Firewall Context (advfirewall)
advfirewall: Change the 'netsh advfirewall' context to configure firewall settings.
 netsh advfirewall dump: Create a script that contains the current firewall configuration.
 netsh advfirewall firewall add: Add a new inbound or outbound firewall rule.
 netsh advfirewall firewall delete: Delete matching inbound rules.
 netsh advfirewall firewall show: Display specific firewall rules.
 netsh advfirewall reset: Reset the firewall configuration to default settings.

Bridge Context
bridge: Change to the 'netsh bridge' context for configuring network bridges.
 netsh bridge install: Install the network bridge component.
 netsh bridge show: Display information about the network bridge.

DHCP Context
dhcpclient: Change to the 'netsh dhcpclient' context for managing DHCP settings.
 netsh dhcpclient trace enable: Enable tracing for DHCP client and DHCP QEC.
 netsh dhcpclient trace disable: Disable DHCP client tracing.

DNS Client Context (dnsclient)
dnsclient: Change to the 'netsh dnsclient' context for configuring DNS client settings.
 Routing Context (routing)
 routing: Change to the 'netsh routing' context to configure routing protocols and settings. 

HTTP Context
http: Change to the 'netsh http' context for configuring HTTP services and settings.
 netsh http show: Display information about the HTTP service.
 netsh http show sslcert: Display SSL certificate bindings.

Interface Context
interface: Change to the 'netsh interface' context for configuring network interfaces.
 netsh interface ipv4: Change to the 'netsh interface ipv4' context.
 netsh interface show interface: Display the network interface status.

Winsock Context (winsock)
winsock: Change to the 'netsh winsock' context for configuring Winsock settings.
 netsh winsock reset: Reset the Winsock catalog to a clean state.
 Wireless LAN Context (wlan)
 wlan: Change to the 'netsh wlan' context to configure wireless network settings.
 netsh wlan connect: Connect to a wireless network.
 netsh wlan show: Display information about wireless network settings.

Trace Context
trace: Change to the 'netsh trace' context to configure trace settings.
 netsh trace start: Start a tracing session.
 netsh trace stop: Stop the current trace session.

RAS Context (ras)
 ras: Change to the 'netsh ras' context for configuring Remote Access Service (RAS) settings.


[EXAMPLES]

Example 1: Configure a Firewall Rule
This command adds a rule to allow inbound HTTP traffic on port 80.
 netsh advfirewall firewall add rule name="Allow HTTP" protocol=TCP dir=in localport=80 action=allow

Example 2: Reset Firewall to Default
This command resets the firewall settings to their default configuration.
 netsh advfirewall reset

Example 3: Enable DHCP Client Tracing
This command enables tracing for DHCP client operations.
 netsh dhcpclient trace enable

Example 4: View Wireless Network Configuration
This command displays all wireless network profiles saved on the system.
 netsh wlan show profiles


Errorlevels
 0: Command was successful.
 1: Command failed due to incorrect syntax or parameters.


Additional Information

NETSH can be run in interactive mode, which allows you to explore various contexts and sub-contexts by typing netsh and then using the help command.

Some commands may require elevated privileges (administrator access) to execute properly. Ensure that you are running NETSH in an elevated Command Prompt or PowerShell window.
